Migraine Classification Data Set

Data Set Characteristics:	Multivariate
Number of Instances:	400	
Area:	Health
Attribute Characteristics:	Real	
Number of Attributes:	24		
Associated Tasks:	Classification	
Missing Values:	No		

Database comprising 400 medical records of users diagnosed with various pathologies
associated with migraines. Data were recorded by trained medical personnel at the
Centro Materno Infantil de Soledad during the first quarter of 2013.
The compiled database contains information regarding symptoms or variable of interest
required for the classification of migraines.

Attribute Information:
1) Age: Patient's age
2) Duration: duration of symptoms in last episode in days
3) Frequency: Frequency of episodes per month
4) Location: Unilateral or bilateral pain location (None - 0, Unilateral - 1, Bilateral - 2)
5) Character: Throbbing or constant pain (None - 0, Thobbing - 1, Constant - 2)
6) Intensity: Pain intensity, i.e., mild, medium, or severe (None - 0, Mild - 1, Medium - 2, Severe - 3)
7) Nausea: Nauseous feeling (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
8) Vomit: Vomiting (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
9) Phonophobia: Noise sensitivity (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
10) Photophobia: Light sensitivity (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
11) Visual: Number of reversible visual symptoms
12) Sensory: Number of reversible sensory symptoms
13) Dysphasia: Lack of speech coordination (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
14) Dysarthria: Disarticulated sounds and words (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
15) Vertigo: Dizziness (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
16) Tinnitus: Ringing in the ears (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
17) Hypoacusis: Hearing loss (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
18) Diplopia: Double vision (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
19) Visual defect: Simultaneous frontal eye field and nasal field defect and in both eyes (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
20) Ataxia: Lack of muscle control (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
21) Conscience: Jeopardized conscience (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
22) Paresthesia: Simultaneous bilateral paresthesia (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
23) DPF: Family background (Not - 0, Yes - 1)
24) Type: Diagnosis of migraine type (Typical aura with migraine, Migraine without aura, Typical aura without migraine, Familial hemiplegic migraine, Sporadic hemiplegic migraine, Basilar-type aura, Other) [247, 60, 20, 24, 14, 18, 17]

Aura: - Symptoms that occur before or after the development of migraine.
        Characterized by disturbances in vision,sensation or speech.

:> Typical Aura with Migraine - Migraine with aura (also called classic migraine) is a recurring headache that strikes
   after or at the same time as sensory disturbances called aura.
   These disturbances can include flashes of light, blind spots, and other vision changes
   or tingling in your hand or face.

:> Migraine without aura - Migraine without aura is the most common type of migraine.
   It is most commonly a symptom that affects your sight, such as blind spots
   or seeing flashing lights

:> Typical aura without migraine

:> Familial hemiplegic migraine - runs in families
   nausea, vomiting, and extreme sensitivity to light and sound.

:> Sporadic hemiplegic migraine - Rare form
   cause intense, throbbing pain in one area of the head.
   nausea, vomiting, and sensitivity to light and sound.

:> Basilar-type migraine aura is characterized by brainstem symptoms:
   ataxia, vertigo, tinnitus, diplopia, nausea and vomiting, nystagmus, dysarthria,
   bilateral paresthesia or a change in level of consciousness and cognition.